# Docker Volumes
# What are Docker Volumes?

* Docker volumes are file systems mounted on Docker containers to preserve data generated by the 
  running container.

* The volumes are stored on the host, independent of the container life cycle. This allows users to
  back up data and share file systems between containers easily.

# Getting Started With Docker Volumes

* There are different ways to mount a Docker volume while launching a container. Users can decide
  between the -v and the --mount flags, which are added to the docker run command.

# How to Create a Docker Volume
* To create a Docker Volume use the command:
	* docker volume create <volume_name>

* Docker automatically creates a directory for the volume on the host under the
  /var/lib/docker/volume/ path. You can now mount this volume on a container, ensuring data
  persistence and data sharing among multiple containers.

# List Docker Volumes
* To verify you have successfully created a Docker volume, prompt Docker to list all available volumes with:
	* docker volume list

# Inspecting Docker Volumes
* To see more information about a Docker volume, use the inspect command
	* docker volume inspect <volume_name>


* It lists details of a volume, including its location on the host file (Mountpoint). Everything 
  stored within the data volume can also be found in the directory listed under the mountpoint path



# Mounting a Data Volume
* To mount a data volume to a container add the --mount flag to the docker run command. It adds 
  the volume to the specified container, where it stores the data produced inside the virtual 
  environment.

* To run a container and mount a data volume to it, follow the basic syntax:
	* docker run --mount source=<volume_name>,destination=<path_in_container> <docker_image>


* Replace <path_in_container> with the path where you want to place the data volume in the 
  container. Everything stored in that directory automatically gets saved on the data volume on the
  host as well.

* For example, to launch an Ubuntu container and mount the data volume to it, run:
	* docker run -it --name=example1 --mount source=data,destination=/data ubuntu


* The command instructs Docker to run a container in interactive mode (-it) from the Ubuntu image,
  under the name example1, while mounting the volume data in the /data directory inside the
  container.

* Then, check to verify the volume was successfully mounted by listing the content of the container:
	* ls

# Mounting a Host Directory as a Data volume

* You can also mount an existing directory from the host machine to a container. This type of volume is called Host Volumes.
* You can mount host volumes by using the -v flag and specifying the name of the host directory.

* Everything within the host directory is then available in the container. What’s more, all the 
  data generated inside the container and placed in the data volume is safely stored on the host
  directory.

* The basic syntax for mounting a host directory is:
	* docker run -v "$(pwd)":<volume_name> <docker_image>
	* docker run -v "%cd%":<volume_name> <docker_image> ( for windows )

* The "$(pwd)" attribute instructs Docker to mount the directory the user is currently in.

* First, create a sample directory on the host under the name tmp and move into it:
	* mkdir temp
	* cd temp

*  Once inside the directory, create a test file to see whether it will be available from the
   container:
	* touch file.txt

* Then, use the docker run command to launch an Ubuntu container with the host directory attached to it:
	* docker run -it -v "$(pwd)":/data1 ubuntu


* This launches the container in interactive mode and mounts a volume under the name data1.

* List the content of the container and verify there is a data1 directory:
	* ls

* Open the mounted directory and list the content. The output should display the file you created on the host:
	* cd data1
	* ls

# How to Delete Docker Volumes
* To delete a Docker volume, you need to specify its name.
* The basic syntax for removing a Docker volume in the command line is:
	* docker volume rm <volume_name>


* Docker removes volumes only if they are not in use at the moment. If there is a container with the specified volume, it responds with an error. To proceed, stop and remove the container and then rerun the docker volume rm command.


# How to Delete All Volumes at Once

* To delete all unused Docker volumes with a single command:
	* docker volume prune -f









